Nicola Sturgeon is Scotland's longest-serving first minister.

Born in Irvine, North Ayrshire, in 1970, she grew up during what she called "the dark days of the Thatcher era".

She joined the SNP at 16 and studied law at Glasgow University before working as a lawyer.

Her entry into full-time politics came when she was elected to the new Scottish Parliament in 1999 as a Glasgow regional MSP.

Her first big test in government came when she was deputy first minister and health secretary, as swine flu was declared a pandemic.

She then took on the job of "Yes Minister"- overseeing planning for the independence referendum.

After the electorate rejected independence in 2014, Ms Sturgeon took over from her mentor Alex Salmond as first minister.
Article share tools

Share this post

    Copy this link

Read more about these links.
Posted at 11:2411:24
A bombshell that will send a shockwave through Scottish politics

Philip Sim

BBC Scotland political correspondent

This is a bombshell which will send shockwaves through Scottish politics. That’s not just because Nicola Sturgeon has been a key figure for so long – an MSP since the Scottish parliament was opened in 1999, and its longest serving first minister.

It’s also because her government stands at a pivotal moment in the pursuit of the SNP’s founding goal, of Scottish independence. The party is holding a special conference next month to decide how it should move the issue on, in light of the UK government’s refusal to engage with plans for a referendum.

And frankly, with no clear successors waiting in the wings, if Ms Sturgeon isn’t running the independence campaign, it’s not clear who will be placed to call the shots.

The first minister had come under significant pressure in recent weeks over her government’s gender reforms. But she has been so dominant in Scottish politics for so long that this still feels it has come completely out of the blue.
Article share tools

Share this post

    Copy this link

Read more about these links.
Posted at 11:1911:19
Nicola Sturgeon will not go immediately

Glenn Campbell

BBC Scotland Political Editor

It is not thought her departure will be immediate, allowing time for a successor to be elected.